JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
A pair of blues greats are
collaborating on a new album
and a North American tour.
They have known each other
for decades, but their joint
project has only recently come
to fruition.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Chautauqua
Auditorium in Boulder, Colorado
recently, at the start of
a new tour by two musicians
who've been doing this a long
time, but never together.
And while it's called the
blues, 75-year-old Taj Mahal and
65-year-old Keb' Mo' are feeling
nothing but joy.
TAJ MAHAL, Musician: That's
what we like about music.
That's why we do music,
to share the fun.
Life brings a lot of strife.
In the digital age,
it's even more intense.
And a lot of people don't
know how to get loose of it.
So, our job as musicians is to
help them get loose and have a
good time and feel good about
themselves.
JEFFREY BROWN: Born Henry Saint
Clair Fredericks, Taj Mahal is
a living legend in the world
of roots and blues music, a
singer-songwriter who plays
many instruments and draws from
many musical influences.
Kevin Moore, Keb' Mo''s
given name, spent many
years in various R&B,
rock, and pop bands,
until he went out on his own
in the early 1990s and focused
on his first love, the blues,
gaining renown as
a master guitarist,
singer, and songwriter.
KEB' MO', Musician: It was
like a missing piece that
made everything relevant.
So, what I did was, I took all
of those things that I had been
doing before, those experiences,
took the blues and
wrapped it in there.
And what came out was Keb' Mo'.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, together,
they are TajMo, the name of
their new album, which features
several songs they co-wrote,
including "Don't Leave Me Here."
On "Take a Giant Step," one
of Taj Mahal's earlier songs,
they were joined on stage by
his daughters.
And then there was the more raw
acoustic duet of "Diving Duck
Blues," a song that Taj Mahal
first recorded on his
debut album back in 1968.
I have heard you for a
long time, blues, folk,
world music, I mean,
different kinds of elements,
different kind of influences.
TAJ MAHAL: My grandparents
come from the Caribbean.
I grew up listening to Caribbean
music, as much as I listened
to the Southern gospel.
My dad liked bebop.
We had bebop and jazz, and
jump blues, you know, and
spirituals, and classical music,
opera, everything, you know?
So, it's like it didn't
hurt me because I
heard all those things.
It didn't take away from -- if
I heard a real deep blues song,
I don't care how much ragtime
I listen to, that
song's going to get me.
It's going to get somebody
else too, if they get
a chance to hear it.
KEB' MO': It's a
beautiful -- the beauty
in it is just so deep.
When I heard the old Muddy
Waters stuff, but, wait a
minute, now, that's what it is.
I could feel the slave
ship coming over the ocean.
TAJ MAHAL: Yes.
KEB' MO': I could feel the
Jim Crow, the cotton-picking.
I could feel the sense of
pride welling up in a man out
of his own circumstances, that
he had to rise up out of a
challenging circumstance of
Jim Crow and slavery and stuff.
I hear all of that.
And that resonates universally.
JEFFREY BROWN: But what you
two have managed to do is make
a life of this, right, without
worrying about
the commercialism?
KEB' MO': Yes, commercialism.
There's something working in
life and in the universe in the
bigger picture that has nothing
to do with commerce and money.
And, for me, I found that after
20 years going after money, that
the faster I ran after money,
the faster the money ran.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
That sounds like a blues song.
TAJ MAHAL: Yes, yes, the
faster I run after the money...
(CROSSTALK)
KEB' MO': And so I finally
just got out of breath and
stopped -- stopped running.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: And, of
course, neither of them
has stopped playing.
Together, the sound
they're creating is both
upbeat and uplifting.
TAJ MAHAL: Did we know
what it was going to
sound like at this point?
No.
But we knew that it was
going to be something good.
Yes, we knew it was going
to be something good.
I mean, it could have
gone the other way too.
I could have said,
Moore, get out of here.
(LAUGHTER)
KEB' MO': That's what
I thought might happen.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: As always,
there's the question of how long
the blues will live on and who
will take up the mantle.
Taj Mahal and Keb' Mo' are
supremely confident the music
will take care of itself.
KEB' MO': Taking on the blues
is a big responsibility.
So I understand why
people would be concerned.
But the music and riches
is about happiness.
The blues will be fine.
TAJ MAHAL: Disciples?
We have got plenty of them.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Taj Mahal and
Keb' Mo', TajMo, are touring the
country throughout the summer
and into the fall.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Jeffrey Brown in
Boulder, Colorado.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you -- yes,
you -- can watch Taj Mahal
and Keb' Mo' perform "Diving
Duck Blues" on our Web
site at PBS.org/NewsHour.